# Production Type End-User License Agreement

<<<<<<< HEAD
## 1. Preamble

1. This Agreement is between you (hereinafter “the User”), and Production Systems SAS, a simplified stock company with a share capital of €10000, registered on the Paris trade and companies register under number 799731575, with its corporate headquarters at 73 boulevard de Sébastopol 75002 Paris - France (hereinafter “Production Type”), whose website is [www.productiontype.com](http://www.productiontype.com/) (“Website”).
2. This Agreement has as its purpose the grant of a non-exclusive license to the User, the provision by Production Type of the Font and its components, including the Typeface (as defined below) to the User of the Typeface and the Font, (hereinafter “the User”); Production Type and the User together referred as “the Parties”, and to specify the conditions under which Production Type authorizes the User to use the Font. “Typeface” refers to all graphic representations of a set of glyphs, letters of an alphabet, figures, weight, style, ornaments, designs and graphics generated by the Font, or deriving from same and created by Production Type, and including rasterized or bitmap images.“Font” to the software which integrates the Typeface as data in a digital file and enables the generation, rendering and positioning of the Typeface, as well as other programatic information.
3. The User expressly acknowledges he has read and understood this Agreement, and that in using the Font, he agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. This Agreement, its Addenda, annexes, and the Purchase Order indicating the total price of each order, as well as the detail of the Font programs selected, the license(s) selected and their duration, and the price of each license, constitute the entirety of the commitments made between the Parties and annul and replace prior verbal or written commitments between the Parties on the same subject.

## 2. License use

1. **Usage.** Production Type grants the User a non-exclusive authorization to use the Font, subject to his full respect of this Agreement, and full payment of the remuneration agreed between the Parties as indicated in article 6 of this Agreement.
2. **License type.** The scope of the authorization granted varies according to the needs and choice of the User from among the different authorizations listed as “License types” in Addenda. The amount of remuneration paid by the User for the authorization to use the Font granted by Production Type may vary according to the scope of the authorization, and more specifically according to the license(s) selected, which the User acknowledges. If the Purchase Order identifies a perimeter such as, but not limited to, a client, brand, project, or website domain name, the License is limited to uses associated with said perimeter.
3. **Purchase order.** The choice of the User, and consequently the scope of the authorization granted by Production Type, is indicated in the purchase order summarizing the choice of license(s), as well as the price of each license and the total price as passed on to the User upon confirmation of his order, (hereinafter, the “Purchase Order”). This Purchase Order is prepared by Production Type, either directly or through its Website, in which case the User is also subject to the Terms of Use of the Website, with this Agreement prevailing in case of dispute.
4. **Regular personal and business use.** The authorization granted allows the User to use the Font in accordance with instructions and functionalities as described in the Associated Documentation, for the specific needs of the User’s commercial activity, particularly for promotional and publicity purposes. Associated Documentation refers to the information, functionalities, and technical documentation linked to the Font and the Typeface, and enabling their use, as detailed on the Website’s product or support page. The Associated Documentation applicable to an order is that documentation passed on to the User, with the Purchase Order, on confirmation of his order. The proof of functionalities associated with the Font being established based on the Associated Documentation thus passed on to the User.
5. **Procurement.** Agencies, companies, and individuals sourcing and procuring licenses on behalf of their clients are fully responsible for the communication to Production Type of complete and accurate user parameters of their client’s intended use of the Font, as well as for the supply of comprehensive client information. In such cases, the contractual relationship is formed strictly between Production Type and the actual End User. Procuring parties can be held liable for any non­-contractual use by their clients. 
6. **Backup copies.** The User may make backup copies of the Font beyond the copies used for operating purposes expressly authorized herein, solely for the purposes of archiving, and agrees to control and protect this copy. In case of termination of the Agreement, the User must immediately destroy the Font and all copies thereof under the conditions set out in Article 8 of this Agreement.
7. **Additional Usage.** The scope of authorizations listed hereinafter as “License types” are cumulative. These different methods of exploitation depending on the options chosen by the User, and subject to full payment of the price of the license(s) chosen by the latter. Any usage not expressed either in this Agreement, or in any future technologies yet to be invented, may be subject to additional licensing. This also applies to holders of Font licenses predating such requirements who wish to use the Font for such purposes.

## 3. Limitations

1. The user is generally prohibited from any use or exploitation of the Font outside the scope determined by this Agreement and, in particular, outside that of the specific license(s) selected by the User, and for which he has obtained authorization. Any use which is not expressly authorized herein is prohibited, and the rights which are not clearly granted to the User are reserved for Production Type. Any reproduction or representation, fully or partially, for purposes other than the authorized usage, is prohibited. The failure to respect this prohibition constitutes an infringement that could incur the liability of the User. Outside the cases set out below, and expressly authorized in the Addenda, the User is not authorized to represent, reproduce or distribute the Font. Any such use requires the purchase of a license upgrade. In particular, the User is not authorized to:
2. **Copy**: The User may not share, copy, transfer, market, hire, sub-license, give, lend, distribute, market, or otherwise provide the Font to a third party, or allow any third party (which includes but is not limited to any subsidiary, affiliate, franchisee, assignee, agent, customer, client, subcontractors, supplier, or freelancer) to do so. Non ­com­pliance with this provision constitutes a violation and material breach of this Agreement, voids all support rights and warranties granted by Production Type, is subject to a claim in damages, the immediate cancellation of this Agreement springing therefrom.
3. **Modify**: The User may not modify, edit, adapt, translate, or subset the Font, create derivative works based on the Font or Typeface, or allow any third party to do so. The User is not authorized to modify or amend the digital data characteristics of the Font, wholly or partially. The User is not authorized to modify the Typeface, including the creation of additional weights, styles, or variations, the creation, modification, or removal of existing glyphs, metrics, spacing, kerning, or hinting data, or allow any third party to do so. The components of the Font are provided as a single unit. The User is not authorized to separate the components and install them on different devices. Non ­com­pliance with this provision constitutes a violation and material breach of this Agreement, voids all support rights and warranties granted by Production Type, is subject to a claim in damages, the immediate cancellation of this Agreement springing therefrom.
4. **Decompile**: The User may not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, alter, and attempt to access the source code of the Font, or to allow any third party to do so. The user’s right to use the Font is, in all cases, limited to the executable code, and any attempt to access the source code is prohibited. If Production Type authorizes the User to carry out one of the acts set out herein, any modification shall become and remain the exclusive property of Production Type. The User may not copy, sell, market, lend or transmit these modifications or additions to the Font to any third party, or allow any third party to do so; these stipulations apply without prejudice to applicable mandatory legal provisions and treaties, particularly relating to interoperability, and solely to the extent that the decompiled data is necessary to inter-operability and has not been provided by Production Type, after written request by the User;
5. **Convert**: The User may not convert the Font into another format, or allow any third party to do so, Production Type being solely authorized to supply the Font in different or supplementary formats, at a discretionary cost. Any conversion shall become and remain the exclusive property of Production Type, and the User agrees to be bound by the entirety of the stipulations of this Article 3.
6. **Embed**: The User may not create a digital file (including, but not limited to PDF files and other formats) in which all or part of the Font is embedded in a format that enables its extraction, editing, alteration, enrichment, or modification by the recipient of such a document, in any way whatsoever. This prohibition includes the extraction of vector contours. The User may not transmit a file in which the Font is embedded to any third party that could extract the Font from such a file.
7. **OEM embed**: The User may not embed the Font into manufactured products (including, but not limited to portable, integrated, onboard equipment and electronic systems, interactive terminals, portable game consoles, smartphones, or tablets), regardless of whether the display of the Typeface springs from the usage of the Font or an image of the Typeface in vector or bitmap format (such as TIFF or GIF or any other format).
8. **Create letterlike products**: The User may not create alphabet products, or devices for the creation of forms of letters (such as but not limited to stamps, decals, tattoos, stencils, adhesive letters, numbers, and house plaques), or any product or derivative product, linked to the form of letters and other glyphs contained in the Font (such as symbols, and any other non-alphabetical glyphs). The Font may not be used for any reproduction of the Typeface on any derivative products (such as but not limited to goods for sale, logo design, retail packaging, clothing, textile and apparel, decor, crockery, stationery, or printed or digital point-of-sale display), especially when such reproduction is not accessory to the commercial activity of the User, but is a commercial exploitation of the design of the Typeface itself.

## 4. Duration and territoriality

1. **Commencement.** The Agreement takes effect either at the moment when the User chooses to tick the box “I agree to the Production Type [EULA](https://www.productiontype.com/help/end_user_license_agreement) and the [Terms of use](https://www.productiontype.com/help/terms_of_use)” on Production Type’s Website, or at the signing of this Agreement by the Parties.
2. **Duration.** The right to use the Font granted within the framework of the Agreement is granted, according to that indicated in the Purchase Order, either for a:
    1. Permanent Duration, defined as the legal protection period of the Font as provided by copyright laws or intellectual property laws, and all its components, including the Typeface, as currently in force, or that which may result from any legislative change; or a
    2. Specified Term, (“Term” being defined as the date from which the Agreement takes effect). The Term is automatically renewed and due, unless Production Type is given a written discontinuation notice one month before initial Term end. All uses permitted herein must be discontinued by the Term expiration date, subject to all of the provisions of this Agreement unless new addenda covering a future time period are obtained;
3. **Territoriality.** The License(s) selected by the user, as described in the Addenda of this Agreement, are granted according to that indicated in the Purchase Order, either:
    1. Worldwide; or a
    2. Specified geographical zone.

## 5. Intellectual property

1. The Font, all its components as well as all copyrighted or registered designs and trademarks associated with the latter, and all elements that make it up, and in particular the Typeface, are the exclusive property of Production Type, which the User acknowledges. All rights not expressly granted herein are reserved for Production Type, which the User acknowledges.
2. The Parties understand that the authorization granted by Production Type does not transfer to the User any of the rights of Production Type to the Font and the Typeface, Production Type retaining sole title to them, and all associated rights, copyrights, and trademarks.
3. It is specified that Production Type, its successors, and beneficiaries, expressly retain all rights to the Font and the Typeface, the scope of which being envisaged in distributive form. The User recognizes that any unauthorized use of the Font is a violation of the rights of Production Type causing significant financial damage to Production Type.
4. Under no circumstances may the user consider that he is the owner of the digital file that Production Type makes available to the User. The physical control of the file is only granted to allow him to enjoy the rights granted and subject to the authorization given, and this file is only ancillary to this Agreement.
5. If a dedicated “Credits”, “Colophon”, or similar section exists, and within the framework of its commercial activity, particularly for its promotional activity, the User has an obligation, to a reasonable extent, to credit Production Type as the originator and holder of all rights attached to the Font, and to display citations pertaining to authorship, copyright or trademark law attached to the Font and the Typeface. The User agrees to remove none of the credits and copyrights contained in the Font. 

## 6. Payment

1. Pricing assumes that the terms of this Agreement are unchanged. Production Type reserves the right to charge supplemental fees for any changes to this Agreement requested by the User.
2. In consideration for the authorization granted to it under the Addenda of this Agreement, the User shall pay Production Type the sum, in Euros excluding tax, indicated on the purchase order and corresponding to the license(s) selected by the User, as identified on the Purchase order, the price of each license being indicated on the Purchase Order, as well as the precise name of each Font. VAT shall be applied in addition to the rates and conditions in force.
3. Full payment is the condition for the provision of a download link to the User, thus enabling the download of the selected Font. Payment is made:
    1. For any order made online, directly after confirmation of the order placed on the Website.
    2. For any order made offline, on receipt of the invoice sent by Production Type to the User.
4. It is specified that in all cases, the Font is only made available to the User subject to the condition that the entire price has been paid to Production Type, in the absence of specific contractual conditions expressly authorized by the Parties.

## 7. Guarantees

1. **Guarantees by the user.** The User guarantees that he has the legal capacity to agree to this Agreement, and that he has read and understood the Agreement. The User expressly recognizes that in using the Font, he agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The User guarantees that the User Group (defined as either the members of the household or the members of the acquiring legal entity, employees, business unit, subcontractors, providers, agents, as well as any customer susceptible to use the Font) are informed of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and agree to be bound by it before using the Font. In case of use of the Font unauthorized by this Agreement, both by himself or by the User Group, the User acknowledges that he is fully liable towards Production Type, and undertakes to compensate it in this respect.
2. **Guarantees by Production Type.** Production Type guarantees that it has the legal capacity to grant this Agreement, and that it holds all the intellectual property rights to grant the authorizations to the User, set out in Article 2 and the Addenda to this Agreement. Production Type shall hold the User harmless against any claim or suit that might be brought by any physical or legal entity regarding rights to the Font and the Typeface, (expressly excluding their use by the User), as long as:
    1. The User has notified, within a reasonable time, the action or suit or declaration that preceded the dispute;
    2. Production Type has been able to freely conduct, at its own cost, the defense of its interests as well as those of the User, and particularly that it has given its agreement to the choice of the attorney entrusted with the defense and that, within the procedure, the User has loyally collaborated in said defense by providing, in due time, all the elements of information and assistance reasonably necessary to successfully conduct said defense.
3. **Guarantee duration.** Production Type contractually guarantees the correct operation of the Font and its components, for thirty days following their delivery. Beyond this period, no guarantee is made concerning the correct operation of the Font and its components, nor their fitness for the requirements and usage envisaged by the User, without prejudice toward any laws and regulations that may be applicable. To make a warranty claim, the User must contact Production Type through its Website. Claims must include a sales receipt and documentation of the issue.
4. **Disclaimers**
    1. Bearing in mind the highly technical nature of the Font, and the current status of IT techniques, the Parties mutually agree that Production Type is subject to an obligation of means, specifically not guaranteeing that the Font is fit for the User’s intended use.
    2. The liability of Production Type may only be incurred by its actions in the sole case where a causal link has been established between the alleged detriment and gross misconduct of Production Type, without prejudice to any applicable laws and regulations.
    3. The User hereby accepts that the compensation for any loss suffered by the User arising from the use of the Font or concerning the execution of this Agreement is limited to the amount paid by the User to Production Type under Article 6 of this Agreement, without prejudice to any applicable laws and regulations.
    4. Production Type disavows any liability in any respect whatsoever, even if previously informed, for direct and indirect damages such as loss of earnings, commercial or financial detriment, increase of general costs, third party claims or losses pertaining to this Agreement, as well as damages caused to persons or property, without prejudice toward any applicable laws and regulations.
    5. The User alone shall bear the consequences of operating faults of the Font due to any non-compliant use with the operating instructions, and acknowledges that Production Type does not guarantee that the Font is fit for the use sought by the User. The User agrees that it bears the responsibility of complying with all laws, foreign and domestic, on the control of exports or transfers of technology. If the User acquires the Font for governmental usage, the User agrees to read and comply with all applicable rules relating to the purchase of a license, and its effective use.

## 8. Termination

1. **Termination for non-compliance** 
    1. The User guarantees Production Type against all representations or reproductions, particularly in the form of a copy, of the Font outside the framework of the Agreement, and acknowledges that he shall be solely liable in the event of representation, reproduction, or extraction of the Font, in particular by end-users who are not authorized to access the Font, and in the event of use in anything other than compiled executable form.
    2. The User must ensure that either the User Group, as well as any provider called upon to use the Font, are informed of the terms and conditions of the Agreement and that they agree to be bound by it before using the Font, to which the User agrees.
    3. During the Term of this Agreement, if Production Type so requests, the User is required to provide complete and accurate answers to Production Type’s questions concerning equipment in which he has installed the Font and uses to which the Font has been put, certified by an officer of the company. In addition, upon at least ten days’ advance notice, Production Type may, either through its employees or through a third party designated by Production Type, inspect the User’s records and equipment to verify compliance with the terms of the Agreement. Production Type will treat in confidence all information to which it has access in making an inspection, except as may be reasonable to enforce this Agreement. 
    4. This Agreement is subject to termination in Production Type’s sole discretion if the User violates any of the terms and conditions stated herein. Production Type may, but is not required to, suggest revised conditions of the Agreement on which the User may continue to use the Font after curing the violation in an appropriate manner. (For example, if the User failed to respect the Agreement’s “Number of employees” limitation, Production Type may require as a condition to continued use that the User expands the Agreement to unlimited employees so there will be no need for future oversight on this issue.)
    5. In addition to any damages the violation may cause Production Type, it will be entitled to payment by the User of the costs incurred by it to investigate and address the violation, enforce the License, and finalize a settlement, including reasonable bailiffs’, investigators’, and attorneys’ fees.
    6. Production Type reserves the right to pursue legal action and seek financial compensation for dam­ages. In case of overuse, including but not limited to, a retroactive fee calculated according to the valid licensing tariff of Production Type, with an additional surcharge of at least 200%. 
2. **Termination for breach by the User**
    1. In case of breach by the User of any of its obligations under the Agreement, the latter may be canceled ex officio, without any legal formality, thirty days after a formal notice has gone unanswered. The termination may be notified by Production Type to the User either by email or by registered mail with acknowledgement of receipt.
    2. The User is required to immediately withdraw documents printed on tangible formats published with the help of the Font, and including the Typeface, already made available to the public or distributed. The User may not use up existing stocks of such documents published but not yet distributed before the termination date. No re-publication nor reprint using the Font or Typeface is authorized after the termination date.
3. **Termination for convenience**
    1. The Parties may end the Agreement at any time, respecting a notice of three months following the sending of an email or a registered mail with acknowledgement of receipt.
    2. In this case, the User is not required to proceed with withdrawal of documents when such documents on tangible or physical media and using the Font or the Typeface have already been published, made available to the public, or distributed. The User is also authorized to use up existing stocks of such documents, published but not yet distributed before the termination date. It is, on the other hand, understood between the Parties that no re-publication using the Font or Typeface is authorized after the termination date.
4. **Consequences common to all types of terminations** In case of termination of this Agreement, the stipulations of Articles 1, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 11 remain applicable. No fees will be refundable to the User upon termination. Within no more than thirty days of the termination date of the Agreement, the User must immediately: 
    1. Cease use of the Font and Typeface to publish all documents, withdraw Font files from any intangible or digital formats (applications, software, servers, etc.), and disable the display of the Typeface on all types of formats or terminals. 
    2. Delete the Font and the copies thereof, from all servers, computers, devices, and more generally any storage space on which the Font is stored. The User acknowledges that the conservation of the Font after the termination of the Agreement constitutes a breach for which the User may be subject to legal action.
    3. Recall all digital files and products integrating or making it possible to generate the Font or the Typeface. The User must remove all reference to the Font and Typeface’s files and names in code and commented-out code, including that of a website or any digital file and product.
    4. Submit a declaration signed by an officer of the company that attests to the destruction of the Font and materials in conformance with this Agreement. The cure of a violation or the termination of the Agreement is without prejudice to Production Type’s entitlement to damages.

## 9. Assignment

1. This Agreement is personal, and the User may not assign it or transfer it to a third party, without prejudice to the cases expressly set out in Article 2 and the Addenda herein, where the use of the Font by a third party is authorized, subject to respect for the conditions and purpose of this use.
2. If the Font is validly assigned by the User to a third party according to law, said assignment shall only be valid and enforceable against Production Type as long as the User informs Production Type of the full identity and details of the assignee of the Font, as requested by Production Type, and the User provides evidence to Productions Type of the destruction of all copies of the Font held by the initial user.
3. At any time, Production Type may assign the obligations springing from this Agreement to the person or legal entity of its choice.

## 10. Applicable law and competent jurisdiction

1. The Parties agree that the Agreement is prepared, subject to, and interpreted according to the laws of France and the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent courts of Paris. 
2. Before any referral to the courts, the User undertakes to inform Production Type of any dispute, by either by email or by registered mail with acknowledgement of receipt, and to seek an amicable solution. In the event of failure to reach an amicable solution, the Parties agree that any dispute relating, in particular, to the validity, interpretation, and execution of the Agreement shall be subject to mandatory laws and regulations, and to the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent courts set herein.
3. If one or several stipulations of the Agreement are held to be invalid or declared as such according to law, regulations, or following a definitive ruling by a competent court, the other stipulations shall retain all their force and scope. The Parties thus agree to replace the clause declared null and void with one that is as equivalent as possible to its content, and the economic intent of the clause initially agreed. The User expressly agrees that the United Nations Convention on Agreements for International Sales of Goods is hereby excluded. 

## 11. General 

1. **License upgrade.** To obtain a license upgrade, the User must contact Production Type for further information. If the User is not sure that the use he intends to make of the Font is authorized, he must contact Production Type for verification. The absence of a request for authorization by the User or the absence of any specific prohibition in the Agreement may not be interpreted as an authorization or authorized usage under any circumstance whatsoever. The fact of not requiring or forcing the execution by the User of certain stipulations herein, or the fact of not prevailing upon a right set out herein, cannot be interpreted as a waiver, by Production Type, of its right to require or impose the execution of these stipulations. The express waiver by Production Type of stipulations, conditions, or requirements in this Agreement may not constitute a waiver of any future obligation of compliance with said stipulations, conditions, or requirements. 
2. **License Agreement updates.** Production Type reserves the right to amend or modify the Agreement at any moment without notice, in particular for future technical developments insofar as any provisions herein are rendered obsolete or incomplete by new or changed technology. The user may be informed by any means of the new stipulations of this Agreement, effective as of the date of publication of notice of the modification on Production Type’s Website.
3. **License normalization.** In the event of multiple license purchases over time by the User, if there are any differences in the terms between or among the Agreements issued in connection with the purchases, Production Type has the right to require that the terms in the latest Agreement govern the entirety of the User’s licensed uses of all Fonts supplied to the User. Production Type may also impose consistent Agreement terms on any related entities (such as foreign affiliates or franchisees) that place orders for the same Font.
4. **Digital rights management.** According to articles L.131-9, L.331-5, L.331-11 of the French intellectual property code, Production Type can resort to technical measures and systems to protect the Font, or to control its use. The User may not take measures aimed at misappropriating or infringing those technical measures. The User expressly recognizes and accepts that those technical measures may limit or revoke his access and use of the Font. The User also agrees to the automatic updating of those technical measures, and the associated consequences. It is expressly agreed between the Parties that this specific commitment constitutes an essential and determinant obligation without which Production Type would not conclude the Agreement.

# Addenda - License types

## A. Trial 

1. The User is authorized to install the Font exclusively for testing, evaluating, comping, or presentation purposes, for instance to a client of the User. “Install” means making the font locally available to applications on a device.
2. The User is thus authorized to create artwork using the Typeface exclusively for private and internal tests, prospective presentations to clients, for evaluating the technical compatibility of the Font, and for evaluating the aesthetical characteristics of the Typeface.
3. Any public or private production use, commercial or non-commercial, is hereby excluded, in particular the exploitation and dissemination of images or graphics showing the Typeface, of websites referring the Font in their code or rendering text styled with the Typeface, and of websites displaying images or graphics showing the Typeface.
4. In order to use the Font in final work, or publish it, or otherwise render it public, the User and, if so applies, his client must have a non-trial license and any addenda that may apply to the use.
5. The Font under this Trial license is provided on an ‘as is’ basis without any warranties of any kind, and Production Type’s guarantee as stipulated in 7.3 and 7.4 does not apply.

## B. Desktop

1. The User is authorized to install the Font for internal business use. “Install” means making the font locally available to applications on a device.
2. The User is authorized to install the Font for a defined number of sub-users as described in the Purchase Order (“User Group”). It is specified that when the User is a legal entity, the User Group must all be employees of the company to which the Agreement is granted. The Addenda fee is based upon the cumulated Number of Employees specified in the Purchase Order (across all geographical sites, measured over one year).
3. By “Desktop” is meant use of the Font on a tangible media, enabling editing by the User alone, then the display and printing of human-readable text on a tangible media, internally or as part of the User’s commercial activity, and as an accessory to this activity, to the exclusion of any use expressly granted in other Licenses types and of any commercial use of the Font or the Typeface themselves. 
4. The Font may thus be used for the design and publication of printed graphics and static images, such as books, brochures, catalogs; more generally, as part of literary and media publishing activity in which the Typeface may appear in a non-editable, non-embedded form. The Font may be used to create non-font static digital documents such as bitmap images on the web, and non-font vector images. 
5. The use of the Font is authorized for static text only, not dynamic. Use for dynamic text editable by a third party or the displaying and printing of variable data is not part of this License. The dynamic display of the Typeface, and the dynamic rasterizing and rendering of the Typeface as bitmap images, is not authorized either.
6. **Addenda to article 3.2 “Copy”:** For the exclusive purpose of outputting certain files, the User is permitted to transfer a copy of the Font used for creating the relevant file, to printers and printing service providers, on the condition that there will be no active use of the Font (for example, but not limited to: for text formatting, editing, or corrections). In the event of active use of the Font, such service companies are required to purchase their own license. The User is obliged to inform any such commercial printer, pre­press or service company about the content and restrictions of this Agreement, including the prohibition against reproducing, distributing, providing to the public, disseminating, executing or more generally exploiting in any way, free or at cost, the Font. Copies of the Font shall be deleted immediately after performing the service. For greater certainty, it is specified that if the User is a service provider and downloads the Font for his own use, the license granted does not cover the use of the Font for any of the User’s customers. The User’s customer must acquire a license as applicable.
7. **Addenda to article 3.6 “Embed”:** For the exclusive purpose of outputting certain files, the User is permitted to embed the Font in digital documents only when intended for printing. The user recognizes that the transmission of a document in PDF file format set to “printing and viewing only” is the first and best method for transmitting documents to a service bureau or printer. All other provisions of article 3.6 remain in force, especially pertaining to the unauthorized distribution of digital documents where the Font is embedded. This special authorization is without prejudice to respect by the User of the obligations set out herein, and particularly this Addenda and Article 8. 
8. The User may install and use the Font in standalone desktop design software that relies on a remote cloud server infrastructure and has a desktop interface, both conditions being cumulative. The User may install the Font on 1 (one) local file server such as a network font manager, for use on a local network (LAN), solely in the case where use of the Font is expressly limited to the total number of sub-users that may install the Font under this Agreement, corresponding to the total number of persons that may have access to the Font at any moment.

## C. Web

1. The User is authorized to use the Font and display online text onto a website, whose domain name (URL) is specified in the Purchase Order, as well as for an unlimited number of sub-domains related to the domain name contained in the Purchase Order, enabling the static display of the Typeface on screen exclusively, whatever the access device used (personal computer, smartphone, tablet, etc.). If a brand is identified in the Purchase Order, the domains must be substantially dedicated to the licensed brand, and the brand must be prominently displayed and identified on the domains (or, if there are multiple brands, they are all owned by the User, and the Font is used only for the licensed brand). The User may not install the Font in any manner whatsoever. “Install” means making the font locally available to applications on a device.
2. **Addenda to article 3.6 “Embed”:** The user may embed the Font in a website to render text in HTML pages via the @font-face CSS command, and may copy the Font in databases produced by the User. It is specified that the reproduction of the Font is only authorized here to the extent that it is the necessary accessory to the use of the Font and its execution to generate websites pages using the Font, and the consultation and editing of text by website visitors of said website pages using the Font.
3. **Addenda to article 3.2 “Copy”:** For the exclusive purpose of previewing certain files, the User is permitted to transfer a copy of the Font used for previewing the relevant file, to web developers and web agencies, on the condition that there will be no active use of the Font (for example, but not limited to: for text formatting, editing, or corrections). In the event of active use of the Font, such service companies are required to purchase their own license. The User is obliged to inform any such web developer, web agency or service company about the content and restrictions of this Agreement, including the prohibition against reproducing, distributing, providing to the public, disseminating, executing or more generally exploiting in any way, free or at cost, the Font. Copies of the Font shall be deleted immediately after performing the service. For greater certainty, it is specified that if the User is a service provider and downloads the Font for his own use, the license granted does not cover the use of the Font for any of the User’s customers. The User’s customer must acquire a license as applicable. The User is permitted to transfer a copy of the Font to a provider supplying remote storage services (remote servers, cloud, and other similar services) to the User, as part of a web use requiring the remote execution of the Font, it being specified that the Font format may not be modified, and that only the copy of the executable version of the Font, as provided by Production Type, is authorized. The Font must not be supplied in a format that enables extraction. If the correct functioning of the website created by the User requires the storage of the Font in a remote storage space, in a format that enables the extraction, editing, alteration, enrichment, or modification of the Font by a third party, the user undertakes to inform the provider of the need to prevent any extraction, reproduction, or representation of the Font, and all reproductions other than those strictly necessary for the operation of the website. The User shall undertake measures to prevent the copy or extraction of the Font, and in particular the linking to the Font from unauthorized websites and domain names outside of the Purchase Order. To prevent unauthorized use of the Font, such protection measures include protection by Cross-Origin Resource Tracking (CORS) headers, and the use of a .htaccess file.
4. The User is not authorized to print elements displayed on screen containing the Typeface and generated from the Font. The use of the Font is authorized for static text only, not dynamic. Use for dynamic text editable by a third party or the displaying and printing of variable data is not part of this License. The dynamic display of the Typeface, and the dynamic rasterizing and rendering of the Typeface as bitmap or vector images, or the dynamic embedding of the Font in electronic documents, is not authorized either. To further clarify, the use of the Font to generate static documents (e.g. variable data printing, automatic PDF generation, or print-on-demand products) is not authorized. Use in banners, pop-up advertising, email newsletters, and HTML5 ads on third parties web servers and websites is not authorized.
5. The User must own and control the domain name on which the Font will be used. The User shall indemnify Production Type against all representations or reproductions of the Font outside of the Web License, particularly in the form of a copy, extraction, or direct links. The User acknowledges that he is solely liable in the case of a copy, representation, reproduction, or extraction of the Font or the Typeface, particularly by uses outside the domain name as specified in the Purchase Order.

## D. Social Media

1. The User is authorized to install the Font for Social Media use. “Install” means making the font locally available to applications on a device. The User is authorized to install the Font for a defined number of sub-users as described in the Purchase Order (“User Group”). It is specified that when the User is a legal entity, the User Group must all be employees of the company to which the Agreement is granted. The Addenda fee is based upon the cumulated Number of Employees specified in the Purchase Order (across all geographical sites, measured over one year).
2. The Addenda fee is based upon the cumulated Number of Followers on cumulated Social Medias Accounts (“Accounts”) specified in the Purchase Order (measured over one year) for all of the Social Media Accounts that display the Font. A follower of multiple Accounts is counted for each one, up to the maximum stated.
3. The User is authorized to use the Font and the display of rasterized text for online use on Social Media Accounts, enabling the static display of the Typeface on screen exclusively. If a brand is identified in the Purchase Order, the Social Media accounts must be substantially dedicated to the licensed brand, and the brand must be prominently displayed and identified on the Account (or, if there are multiple brands, they are all owned by the User, and the Font is used only for the licensed brand).
4. By “Social Media” use, is meant any use of the Font on a Social Media, enabling editing by the User alone, then the display of human-readable text on a digital media, internally or as part of the User’s commercial activity, and as an accessory to this activity, to the exclusion of any use expressly granted in other Licenses types and of any commercial use of the Font or the Typeface themselves.
5. The Font may thus be used for the design and publication of social media digital graphics, static images, and streaming videos, as organic, paid-for, promoted or sponsored posts on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, Youtube, and other channels. 
6. Any other use beyond those listed herein is subject to the purchase of the appropriate license. The use of the Font is authorized for static text only, not dynamic. Use for dynamic text editable by a third party or the displaying and printing of variable data is not part of this License. The dynamic display of the Typeface, and the dynamic rasterizing and rendering of the Typeface as bitmap images, is not authorized either.

## E. Mobile App

1. The User is authorized to embed, load, and use the Font for the display of text inside a mobile application (“App”) exclusively on mobile devices such as phones and tablets, whose name and Operating System platform (“OS”) is specified in the Purchase Order, enabling the static display of the Typeface on screen exclusively. If a brand is identified in the Purchase Order, the App must be substantially dedicated to the licensed brand, and the brand must be prominently displayed and identified on the App (or, if there are multiple brands, they are all owned by the User, and the Font is used only for the licensed brand). The User must own and control the App in which the Font will be embedded.
2. The Addenda fee is based upon the cumulated number of downloads on cumulated platforms specified in the Purchase Order (measured over one year) for all of the Apps that display the Font. A download of multiple Apps is counted for each one, up to the maximum stated. 
3. Use of the Font is solely authorized during the execution of OSs for mobile device and particularly iOS, Windows Mobile, and Android, therefore exclusively on smartphones and tablets, thus excluding desktop and laptop computers.
4. Use of the Font is authorized for a downloadable mobile game App. This license does not cover video games executable on game consoles, desktop, and laptop computers.
5. **Addenda to article 3.6 “Embed”:** The User may embed the Font in an App to render texts, inputs, and interface elements. It is specified that the reproduction of the Font is only authorized here to the extent that it is the necessary accessory to the use of the Font and its execution to generate App interface elements using the Font, and the consultation and editing of text using the Font by third-parties using said App (“App user”). A copy of the Font may be made for embedding into the App, it being specified that only the executable version of the Font may be used. The Font must be securely loaded into the App and made inaccessible by the App user other than for use in the App, especially not accessible in the device’s font library, the use of the Font being strictly limited to the App for which the License was granted.
6. **Addenda to article 3.2 “Copy”:** The User may not copy the Font in remote databases produced by the User. The User may not enable the generation of content requiring the execution of the Font via a remote connection with which the Font is used. Likewise, the copying of the Font by a provider supplying remote storage services (remote servers, cloud, etc.) for the User is not authorized.
7. The Font may not be used to create electronic documents or digital files that the User may embed into the application.

## License Add-ons

:::info
The below add-ons are not available for online licensing. Please [get in touch](/contact) for a quote.
:::

1. **Logo** License for use of an outlined font, modified or not, in an artwork that can be trademarked or registered such as logo, brand mark, tagline, baseline, or slogan.
2. **Audio-Visual and Film** License for use in audio-visual, film, TV, streaming, broadcasting, or motion graphics material, public or private.
3. **Third Party** License for the transmission of the font to designated third parties for the provision of services and editing exclusively in connection with the Brand or Project.
4. **Advertising (OOH/DOOH)** License for use in advertising campaigns, audio-visual ads, billboards, vehicles, out-of-home advertising, and digital out-of-home advertising.
5. **Online advertising** License for use in banners, pop-up advertising, email newsletters, and HTML5 ads on third parties web servers and websites.
6. **Digital POS** License for use in digital point-of-sale displays and in-store advertisement, retail stores, public indoor displays.
7. **Product Packaging & Merchandise** License for use in product packaging and labels, promotional or commercial goods, and merchandise such as textile products and accessories.
8. **OEM Software/Hardware embedding** License for embedding the font in hardware devices, consumer electronics, and standalone software.
9. **Videogame** License for embedding the font in a videogame title.
10. **Epub and Online PDF Publications** License for embedding the font in Epubs or PDF documents available for download.
11. **Powerpoint embedding** License for embedding the font in PowerPoint and other presentation software documents.
12. **Architecture, signage and environmental graphics** License to use of the font on a designated geographical location, such as building, exhibition, event, conference, congress, or festival, for digital and analog signage, and environmental graphics.
13. **Server** License to use the font in a web server or a CMS for the dynamic generation of analog and digital content such as PDF, business documents, brand assets, retail labels, variable data prints, tickets.
14. **Analog Distribution** License for creating alphabet or letterform products such as stamps, house numbers, letter stickers.

```EULA V7.009 - 20200326 - 20201130```
=======

This License Agreement (hereinafter the "License Agreement”) has as its purpose the provision by the company Production Systems SAS, a simplified stock company with share capital of €10,000 registered on the Paris trade and companies register under number 799731575, with its corporate headquarters at 255 rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine 75011 Paris - France (hereinafter “Production Systems SAS”) of the Font Software and its components, including the Font and the Typeface (as defined below) to the user of the Font, Typeface and the Font Software (hereinafter the "User”).

Production Systems SAS and the User are hereinafter jointly defined as the “Parties” or individually a “Party”.

## ARTICLE 1 – DEFINITIONS

**“Typeface/s”** refers to all graphic representations of a character and/or glyph, its weight, ornaments, and graphics generated by the Font Software by using the Font, or deriving from same and created by Production Systems SAS, and including rasterized, as well as derived images (bitmap, for example);

**“Font”** refers to the complete set of characters of the same typeface created by Production Systems SAS, particularly all glyphs of the alphabet, as well as all figures and all characters making up a typeface;

**“Font software"** refers to the software whose functionalities are described in Annex 1 of this agreement, which integrates the Font and enables the generation of the typeface and, as applicable, the ornaments and other characters attached to a Typeface, it being specified that the Font Software also includes the Associated Documentation as defined below.

**“Associated Documentation”** designates the information, functionalities and technical documentation linked to the Font Software and, more generally, the Font, and Typeface, and enabling their use, as detailed in the support section linked on the Website, it being specified that the Associated Documentation applicable to an order is that documentation passed on to the User, with the Purchase Order, on confirmation of his order, particularly by e-mail when the order is made online, the proof of functionalities and the technical documentation associated with the Font Software being established on the basis of the Associated Documentation thus passed on to the User;

## ARTICLE 2 – PURPOSE

The purpose of the License Agreement is to grant the non-exclusive right of use to the Font Software, and to specify the conditions under which Production Systems SAS authorizes the User to use the Font Software and its components, including the Font and the Typeface.

## ARTICLE 3 – USER LICENSE

Production Systems SAS grants the User, subject to their full respect of this License Agreement, and in particular subject to full payment of the remuneration agreed between the Parties as indicated in article 7 of this agreement, a non-exclusive authorization to use the Font Software.

The scope of the authorization granted varies according to the needs and choice of the User from among the different authorizations listed below, and as defined in this article 3:

- Desktop License;

- Audio-visual and film License;

- Web License;

- Mobile Application License;

- Web server License and PDF server;

- EPub License.

It is specified that the amount of remuneration paid by the User for the authorization to use the Font Software granted by Production Systems SAS may vary according to the scope of the authorization, and more specifically according to the license(s) selected, which the User acknowledges.

The choice of the User, and consequently the scope of the authorization granted by Production Systems SAS, is indicated in the purchase order summarizing the choice of license(s), as well as the price of each license and the total price as passed on to the User upon confirmation of his order, particularly by email when the order is made online (hereinafter, the "Purchase Order"). 

This Purchase Order is prepared by Production Systems SAS, (i) either through its website at <http://www.productiontype.com/>, in which case the User is also subject to the terms of use of the website and the download service, with this License Agreement prevailing in case of dispute, (ii) or directly by Production Systems SAS. 

The Parties understand that the authorization granted by Production Systems SAS does not transfer to the User any of the rights of Production Systems SAS to the Font Software and all its components, with Production Systems SAS retaining sole title to the exclusive Font Software and all its components, and all associated trademarks.

The user has an obligation, to a reasonable extent, to credit Production Systems SAS as the originator and, more generally, attribute all credits necessary to identify Production Systems SAS as the holder of all rights attached to the Font Software, pursuant to article 6 of this agreement. The User agrees to remove none of the credits and copyrights contained in the Font Software.

The authorization granted allows the User to use the Font Software in accordance with instructions and functionalities as described in the Associated Documentation, for the specific personal needs of the User and/or their commercial activity, particularly for promotional and publicity purposes.

Depending on the authorization chosen, the User may, both with regard to the right of reproduction and to right of representation, use the Typeface on printed documents, electronic documents, graphic design, or in online services and/or on websites, either for integrating the Typeface in media intended to be broadcast and/or distributed in the cinema, or loaded in applications. These different methods of exploitation being cumulative, depending on the options chosen by the User, and subject to full payment of the price of the license(s) chosen by the latter, it being specified that the user’s right to use the Font Software is, in all cases, limited to the executable code, and that any attempt to access the source code of the Font Software is prohibited.

### 3.1 DESKTOP LICENSE

By "desktop”, is meant any use of the Font Software on a tangible and/or digital media, enabling editing by the User alone, then the display and printing of text including the Typeface on a tangible media, internally or as part of the User's commercial activity, and as an accessory to this activity, to the exclusion of any commercial use of the Font Software and/or the Typeface themselves, and focused on the same design and the form of the Typeface (hereinafter the "Desktop License").

The Font Software may thus be used to create printed documents, books, newspapers, reviews and, more generally, as part of any literary and media publishing activity, for creating the User’s packaging, visual identities and/or logos, manufactured products and/or derivatives bearing the visual identity and/or logos thus created, and in which the Typeface may appear. The Font Software may also be used to create digital documents containing the Typographical Characters and intended for printing.
Under this license, it is specified that the Font Software may under no circumstances be distributed and/or transmitted to a third party, and that there is only authorization for the distribution/ commercial or otherwise, of Typeface in the form of vector images or bitmaps, or in any other uneditable format of images enabling a representation of Typeface in digital form. The reproduction and representation of Typographical Characters in this form are particularly authorized on websites and/or in applications.

The use of the Font Software is authorized for static text only, not dynamic. Use for dynamic text editable by a third party and/or the printing of variable data is not part of the Desktop License. The dynamic display of Typefaces is not authorized either.

The User recognizes that he may not supply the Font Software in a format enabling extraction. Nevertheless, if no other option is available, the User may transmit a digital copy of the Font Software used in a digital document for the attention of a third party service provider requiring the transmission of a document containing the Font Software, such as a service bureau or printer, for the use by the latter and preparation of the document within the strict framework of the service performed at the request of the User, and as long as the service provider destroys all copies of the Font Software once the service has been performed. This special authorization is without prejudice to respect by the User of the obligations set out herein, and particularly this Article and Article 9. Also, the user recognizes that the transmission of a document in PDF format set to "printing and viewing only" is the first and best method for transmitting such documents to a service bureau or printer.

Within the framework of his use of the Font Software, the User is authorized to install the Font Software for a defined number of sub-users, and any other copy is prohibited.

It is specified that when the User is a legal entity, the sub-users indicated in the previous paragraph must all be employees of the company to which the License Agreement is granted.

The User may furthermore install and use the Font Software on 1 (one) file server, for use on a local network (LAN), solely in the case where use of the Font Software is expressly limited to the total number of sub-users that may install the Font Software under this agreement, corresponding to the total number of sub users having authorization to use the Font Software simultaneously, and not the total number of persons that may have access to the Font Software at any moment.

### 3.2 AUDIO-VISUAL AND FILM LICENSE

The authorization to use the Font Software for "audio-visual" purposes covers uses of the Font Software enabling the including of including the Typeface in audio-visual content intended to be broadcast or distributed during projections, particularly in the cinema, on the television and in content distributed online (hereinafter the "Audio-visual and Film license").

The Audio-visual and film license is granted:

- Either for a specific audio-visual work, which is thus indicated in the Purchase Order, it being specified that the Audio-Visual and Film license then covers solely the work envisaged in the Purchase Order, and does not enable use of the Font Software and/or the Typeface for any other audio-visual work, even linked to that for which the Audio-visual and Film License was concluded, and in particular sequels, prequels and spin-offs;

- Or for a television channel published by the User, for all broadcasts and, more generally, all programs designed exclusively for and distributed exclusively on this channel, which is indicated in the Purchase Order. 

Under the Audio-visual and Film License, and in order to enable the integration of Typeface within audio-visual content, the User may use the Font Software to create electronic documents and/or digital files.

The use of the Font Software is authorized for static text only, and not dynamic. Use for dynamic text editable by a third party is not part of the Audio-visual License. The dynamic display of Typefaces is authorized.

The User recognizes that he may not supply the Font Software in a format enabling extraction. Nevertheless, if no other option is available, the User may transmit a digital copy of the Font Software used in a digital document for the attention of a third party service provider requiring the transmission of a document containing the Font Software, such as a creator or specialist in visual effects, for the use by the latter and preparation of the document, strictly for the service performed at the request of the User, and as long as the service provider destroys all copies of the Font Software once the service has been performed. This special authorization is without prejudice to respect by the User of the obligations set out herein, and particularly in this Article and Article 9. Also, the user recognizes that the transmission of a file, for example a layer, embedding the Typeface but not enabling the access and/or extraction of the Font Software is the first and best method for transmitting such files to a provider.

### 3.3 WEB LICENSE

By "web," we mean any use of the Font Software in EOT, WOFF, SVG formats in the digital realm for online use, and exclusively integrated into a website whose domain name is specified in the Purchase Order, as well as an unlimited number of sub-domains related to the domain contained in the Purchase Order enabling the display of Typeface on screen only, whatever the access device used (personal computer, smart phone, tablet, etc.) (hereinafter the “Web License”).
The use of the Font Software within the framework of the Web License is authorized for a domain name indicated in the Purchase Order, and for all its sub-domains, and whose monthly number of visitors is also specified in the Purchase Order. If the number of monthly visitors is exceeded over three (3) consecutive months, the user must request a new license specifying a higher number of visitor numbers. 

Use of the Font Software is authorized for the creation of text on websites, and to enable static and/or dynamic display of Typeface on screen exclusively, it being specified that the Web License gives no authorization to print elements displayed on screen containing Typeface and generated on the basis of and/or deriving from the Font Software. The editing of dynamic text by a third party is authorized.

The Font Software may be used to create electronic documents and/or digital files and/or may be copied in data bases produced by the User enabling their use to generate characters and/or editorial and/or creative services online published by the User. It is specified that the reproduction of the Font Software is only authorized here to the extent that it is the necessary accessory to the dynamic use of the Font Software and its execution with a view to generating websites and/or pages using the Font Software, and the consultation by web users of said websites and/or pages using the Font Software.

 A provider supplying remote storage services (remote servers, cloud, etc.) to the User is authorized to copy the Font Software, as part of a web use requiring the remote execution of the Font Software, it being specified that the Font Software must then be supplied in a format which does not enable extraction, and that only the copy of the executable version of the Font Software is authorized.

In the event that the correct functioning of the website and/or online service created by the User requires storage of the Font Software in the storage space, in a format that permits it, which enables the extraction, editing, alteration, enrichment and/or modification by a third party, the user undertakes to inform the provider of the need to prevent any extraction, reproduction and/or representation of the Font Software and/or all reproductions other than those strictly necessary for the operation of the website and/or online service created by the User. 

The User indemnifies Production Systems SAS against all representations and/or reproductions of the Font Software outside of the Web License, particularly in the form of a copy and/or links to font sites. The User acknowledges that he is solely liable in the case of representation, reproduction and/or extraction of the Font Software, particularly by uses of website(s) the domain names for which are specified in the Purchase Order which are not authorized to store a copy of the Font Software, and may only execute it to generate websites, attached or otherwise, to the domain name recorded in the Purchase order and its sub-domains. The User furthermore undertakes to make all reasonable efforts to prevent the extraction of the Font Software, and in particular the setting up of links to the Font Software from font hosting websites.

### 3.4 MOBILE APPLICATION LICENSE

Authorization to use the Font Software in applications covers use of the Font Software when it is copied and loaded into an application specified in the Purchase Order that the User may download in order to display the Typeface on screen during execution of operating systems for mobile terminals and particularly iOS, Windows Mobile and Android, for use of the Font Software in the specific formats adapted to these terminals and operating system, it being specified that Production Systems SAS reserves the right to amend the list of operating systems for mobile terminals subject to the stipulations of article 13.3 herein (and therefore exclusively on smartphone, tablet, and excluding PCs), this use covering applications for smartphones and tablets, including downloadable games, executable solely on these mobile terminals, the authorization of use not covering video games executable on PCs or game consoles (hereinafter the “Mobile Application License”).
Use of the Font Software is authorized to enable the static and/or dynamic display of typographical characters on screen. The editing of dynamic text by a third party is authorized. Under a Mobile Application license, a copy of the Font Software may be made for embedding into the application for which the Mobile Application License was granted, and its use enabling the dynamic display of Typeface, it being specified that only the executable version of the Font Software may be used and notified to the end user.

The Font Software may not be used to create electronic documents and/or digital files that the user may embed into the application.

It is specified that within the framework of Mobile Application Licenses, the User undertakes to load the Font Software into the application in a secure manner, and such that the Font Software is not accessible by the final user, and is not in the font library, the use and/or execution of the Font Software being strictly limited to the application for which the Mobile Application License was granted.

Under the Mobile Application License, the Font Software may not be copied in remote databases produced by the User and enabled to generate Typeface and/or editorial and/or creative content requiring the execution of the Font Software via a remote connection during execution of the application with which the Font Software is used. Likewise, the copying of the Font Software by a provider supplying remote storage services (remote servers, cloud, etc.) for the User is not authorized.

### 3.5 DOCUMENT SERVER LICENSE

The authorization to use the Font Software on document servers on an Intranet or the Internet covers use of the Font Software on a server identified in the Purchase Order enabling creation by the User alone, the display and printing of text comprising Typographical Characters in digital format and/or tangible format (hereinafter the "Document License Server").

The Font Software may also be used to create printed documents containing the Typeface. The Font Software may also be used to create digital documents containing the Typographical Characters and intended for printing.

Under the Document Server License, a copy of the Font Software may be made for embedding into the server as identified in the Purchase Order. If the User wishes to use the Font Software for more than one server, the User must obtain as many Document Server Licenses as servers into which he wishes to incorporate the Font Software.

Use of the Font Software is authorized for static and dynamic text, including the dynamic display of Typeface and the dynamic publication of the text, it being specified that only the executable version of the Font Software can be used and integrated into the server identified in the Purchase Order. The printing of variable data is part of the Document Server License.

### 3.6 EPUB LICENSE

Use of the Font software in Ebooks covers the use of the Font Software in Kindle AZW, PDF, EPUB, Broadhand eBooks and Mobipocket formats for publication by the user, through the Typeface, of the digital work specified in the Purchase Order, and consultable via specific applications (Ebook readers), and on display terminals enabling the digital display of content (Kindle, iPad, etc.) (hereinafter the “Ebook License”).

The use of the Font Software is authorized to enable the static display of Typeface on screen. The editing of dynamic text by a third party is not authorized. The Ebook license does not cover the printing of digital texts on tangible media.

Within the framework of the Ebook license, a copy of the Font Software may be made with a view to its embedding into the application for which the Ebook license was granted, and its use enabling the dynamic display of Typeface, it being specified that only the executable version of the Font Software may be used and notified to the end user.

The Font Software may only be used to create the sole digital work indicated in the Purchase Order. If the User wishes to use the Font Software for more than one work, the User must obtain as many Ebook Licenses as works into which he wishes to embed the Font Software.

It is specified that within the framework of the Ebook License, the User undertakes to load the Font Software into the work in a secure manner, and such that the Font Software is not accessible by the final user, and is not in the font library, the use and/or execution of the Font Software being strictly limited to the work for which the Ebook License was granted.

Under the Ebook License, the Font Software may not be copied in remote databases produced by the User and enabling its use to generate Typeface and/or editorial and/or creative content requiring the execution of the Font Software via a remote connection during consultation of the work with which the Font Software is used. Likewise, the copying of the Font Software by a provider supplying remote storage services (remote servers, cloud, etc.) for the User is not authorized.

Within the framework of his use of the Font Software, in order to publish the work identified in the Purchase Order, the User is authorized to install the Font Software for an unlimited number of sub-users, and any other copy is prohibited.

It is specified that when the User is a legal entity, the sub-users indicated in the previous paragraph must belong to the company to which the License Agreement is granted.

The User may furthermore install and use the Font Software on 1 (one) file server, for use within the framework of a local network (LAN), solely in the case where use of the Font Software is expressly limited to the total number of sub-users that may install the Font Software under this agreement, corresponding to the total number of sub user(s) having authorization to use the Font Software simultaneously, and not the total number of persons that may have access to the Font Software at any moment.

The user undertakes to delete any copy of the Font Software completed following the publication of the digital work specified in the Purchase Order for the publication of which the User concluded the Ebook License.
 

### 3.7 GENERALITIES APPLICABLE TO ALL LICENSES

The components of the Font Software are granted under the license selected as a single unit. The User is not authorized to separate the components and install them on different devices.

Outside the cases set out above, and expressly authorized in points 3.1 to 3.6 of this Article 3, the User is not authorized to represent, reproduce and/or distribute the Font Software. The User is not authorized, in particular, to:

- Copy or allow any third party to copy the Font Software;

- Market, hire, sub-license, give, lend, distribute or otherwise provide the public with the Font Software, or allow any third party to do so;

- Modify, edit, adapt, translate the Font Software, or create derivative works based on the Font Software, or allow any third party to do so; in particular, the User is not authorized to modify or amend the digital data characteristics of the Font Software, wholly or partially. In particular, the User is not authorized to modify the Typeface, including, in particular, the creation of additional weights, the creation, modification or removal of existing glyphs, metrics, spacing and kerning, or allow any third party to do so; 

- Carry out the reverse engineering, decompiling, disassembly, alteration and attempts to access the source code of the Font Software, or to allow any third party to do so; in the event that Production Systems SAS authorizes the User to carry out one of the acts set out herein, any modification shall become and remain the exclusive property of Production Systems SAS, and the User may not market, lend or transmit these modifications or additions to the Font Software to any third party, or allow any third party to do so; these stipulations apply without prejudice to applicable mandatory legal provisions and treaties, particularly relating to interoperability, and solely to the extent that the decompiled data is necessary to inter-operability and has not been provided by Production Systems SAS, after written request by the User;

- Convert the Font Software into another format for use on other operating systems or other formats, or allow any third party to do so, Production Systems SAS being solely authorized to supply the Font Software in different or supplementary formats, after preparing a specific quote at the request of the User; in the event that Production Systems SAS converts the Font Software, any conversion shall become and remain the exclusive property of Production Systems SAS, and the User may not sell, lend or transmit these modifications or additions to the Font Software to any third party, or allow any third party to do so.

The User may nevertheless make 1 (one) back-up copy of the Font Software beyond the copies used for operating purposes expressly authorized in points 3.1 to 3.6 of this Article 3, solely for the purposes of archiving, and agrees to protect and control this copy. The User may only use this copy for the purposes of reinstalling the Font software, which he acknowledges. In case of termination of the License Agreement, the User must immediately destroy the original and all copies of the Font Software under the conditions set out in Article 9 of this agreement.

The Font Software may not be used to create a digital file in which all or part of the Font Software is incorporated in a format that enables its extraction, editing, alteration, enrichment or modification by the recipient of such a document, in any way whatsoever. This prohibition includes the extraction of vector contours.

It is specified, for all useful purposes, that the User may not transmit the file including the Font Software to any third party that could extract the Font Software from such a file, except in the cases, and for the purposes, expressly authorized in points 3.1 to 3.6, and subject to the condition that the license selected by the User enables such a use, and that the person to whom the Font Software is transmitted is informed of the prohibition against reproducing, distributing, providing to the public, disseminating, executing or more generally exploiting in any way, free or at cost, the Font Software, and of his obligation to destroy it after performing the service when the person in question is a provider rendering a service for the User.

Use of the Font Software is not authorized for on-board electronic systems, which include the use of the Font Software integrated into equipment, whether portable or integrated into a vehicle. For example, and non-exhaustively, such on-board systems include interactive terminals, portable game consoles, smartphones or tablets, regardless of whether the display and/or creation of a copy of the Typeface springs from the usage of the Font Software or an image of the Typeface in tiff, gif or any other format.

The sharing, lending, unauthorized hire or marketing or incorrect use of the back-up copy constitutes a material breach under the terms of the License Agreement, whatever the license selected by the User, the immediate cancellation of this License Agreement springing therefrom, subject to any damages.

The user is generally prohibited from any use and/or exploitation of the Font Software outside the scope determined by this License Agreement and, in particular, outside that of the specific license(s) selected by the User, and for which he has obtained authorization.

Any use which is not expressly authorized herein is prohibited, and the rights which are not clearly granted to the User are reserved for Production Systems SAS. Any reproduction or representation, fully or partially, for purposes other than the authorized usage, is prohibited. The failure to respect this prohibition constitutes an infringement that could incur the civil and criminal liability of the offender.

The user guarantees Production Systems SAS against all representations and/or reproductions, particularly in the form of a copy, of the Font Software outside the framework of the License Agreement, and acknowledges that he shall be solely liable in the event of representation, reproduction and/or extraction of the Font Software, in particular by end users who are not authorized to access the Font Software, and to use it in anything other than executable form.

For greater certainty, it is specified that if the User is a service provider and downloads the Font Software for his own use, the license granted does not cover user of the Font Software for any of the User's customers. As applicable, and if he so wishes, the User’s customer must acquire a license. These stipulations apply without prejudice to the cases set out in points 3.1 to 3.6 of this Article 3, where the User's customer is authorized to copy the Font Software and/or execute it, subject to respect for the conditions and purposes for which these authorizations are granted, and respect for the stipulations in Article 6 herein.

Finally, it is specified that without the prior upgrading of this License Agreement or conclusion of a new license Agreement, it is prohibited to use the Font Software for the production of an alphabet (or any product, including any derivative product, linked to the form of letters) and/or for the creation of products and/or devices for the creation of forms of letters with a view to their marketing, or otherwise, such as, and without this constituting a limitation, stamps, decals, tattoos, stencils, adhesive letters. Likewise, use of the Font Software and Typeface is not authorized for any reproduction of Typeface on any derivative products such as clothing, textiles, decor, crockery, stationary when such a reproduction is not accessory to the commercial activity of the User, but is a commercial exploitation of the design and form of the Typeface themselves.

Under no circumstances may the user consider that he is the owner of the digital files that Production Systems SAS makes available to the User. The physical control of files is only granted to allow him to enjoy the rights granted and subject to the authorization given, and these files are only ancillary to the License Agreement.

Whether the User is a physical person or legal entity, the User must ensure that either the members of the household or members of the acquiring legal entity, employees, agents, as well as any provider called upon to use the Font Software are informed of the terms and conditions of the License Agreement, and that they agree to be bound by it before using the Font Software, to which the User agrees.

Pursuant to Article l.131-9 of the Intellectual Property Code, it should be recalled that Production Systems SAS has the option of resorting to the technical measures set out in Article L.331-5 of the Intellectual Property Code, as well as information in electronic form set out in Article L. 331-11 of the same Code.

The digital files of the Font Software may thus be protected by technical measures for protection and information, or "Digital Rights Management Systems", that is to say, protection systems making it possible to control their use and in particular their copying. Their main purpose is to offer Users the maximum flexibility in the use of the content made available, while protecting intellectual property rights. The User is prohibited from taking any measure aimed at misappropriating or infringing on the technical measures for protection and information. The User expressly recognizes and accepts that the technical measures of protection and information may limit or revoke his access to one or several Font Software programs, as well as the use that may be made thereof. The User also agrees to the automatic updating of technical measures for protection and information, and the associated consequences.

It is expressly agreed between the Parties that this specific commitment constitutes an essential and determinant obligation without which Production Systems SAS would not have concluded the Agreement.

If the User is not sure that the use he intends to make of the Font Software is authorized, he must contact Production Systems SAS for verification.

The absence of a request for authorization by the User and/or the absence of any specific prohibition in the License Agreement may not be interpreted as an authorization or authorized usage under any circumstance whatsoever.

To get a license supplement, the User must contact Production Systems SAS at info@productiontype.com (http://productiontype.com/) for further information.

## ARTICLE 4 – DURATION AND TERRITORIALITY OF THE LICENSE

The License Agreement takes effect:

- Either at the moment when, on the website of Production Systems SAS available at the following URLhttp://www.productiontype.com/, the User, wishing to create a User account and/or download the Font Software, chooses to tick the box “I have read and fully accept all the rules set out by this License Agreement” ;

- Or on the signing of this License Agreement by the Parties as identified at the end of this agreement.

The right to use the Font Software granted within the framework of the License Agreement is granted, according to that indicated in the Purchase Order, for the legal protection period by copyright of the Font Software, and all its components, including the Font and Typographical Characters, as currently in force, or that which may result from any legislative change, the new protection period able, in the event of a change, to vary from one component of the Font Software to the other, depending on the work concerned.

The License(s) selected by the user as described in Article 3 of this agreement are granted for the whole world.

## ARTICLE 5 – INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The Font Software, all its components as well as all registered trademarks associated with the latter, and all elements that make it up, and in particular the Font and Typographical Characters, are the exclusive property of Production Systems SAS, which the User acknowledges.

All rights not expressly granted herein are reserved for Production Systems SAS, which the User acknowledges.

It is specified that Production Systems SAS, its successors, and beneficiaries, expressly retain all legal rights to the Font Software and all its components, the scope of the legal right being envisaged in distributive form by component, according to the type of work.

The User recognizes that any unauthorized use of the Font Software is a violation of the rights of Production Systems SAS causing significant financial damage to Production Systems SAS.

In case of violation of the rights of Production Systems SAS by the User, production Systems SAS reserves the right to claim any remuneration it would normally have a right to, without prejudice toward any other financial compensation of any nature resulting from an infringement of said rights.

## ARTICLE 6 – CITATIONS

It is agreed between the Parties that all copies of the Font Software that the User is expressly authorized to make must bear the same citations pertaining to copyright or trademark law appearing on or in the Font Software.

Likewise, for any use of the Font Software, and in particular the Font and Typographical characters comprising it, within the framework of its commercial activity, particularly for its promotional activity, the user must display citations pertaining to copyright or trademark law attached to the Font Software and its components, for example in a dedicated "credits" or "coda" section.

## ARTICLE 7 – FINANCIAL CONDITIONS

In consideration for the authorization granted to it under Article 3 of this agreement, the User shall pay Production Systems SAS the sum, in Euros excluding tax, indicated on the purchase order supplied to the User, either electronically in their User account and/or by email, or directly by Production Systems SAS and corresponding to the license(s) selected by the User and identified individually on the Purchase order, the price of each license being indicated on the Purchase Order, as well as the precise name of each Font Software program.

Payment of the sum due by the User for the authorization granted in Article 3 of this agreement is made:

- For any order made directly to Production Systems SAS, on receipt of the invoice sent by Production Systems SAS to the User, VAT shall be applied in addition to rates and conditions in force;

- For any order made online, directly after confirmation of the order of a Font Software program made on the website of Production Systems SAS, VAT shall be applied in addition to the rates and conditions in force, to full payment conditions for the sending of a link to the User's account, enabling them to download the selected Font Software.

It is specified that in all cases, the Font Software is only made available to the User subject to the condition that the entire price has been paid to Production Systems SAS, in the absence of specific contractual conditions expressly authorized by the Parties.

## ARTICLE 8 – GUARANTEES

### 8.1 User capacity

The User guarantees that he has the legal capacity to agree to this License Agreement, and that he has read and understood the License Agreement. The User expressly recognizes that in using the Font Software, he agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

The User guarantees that either the members of the household or the members of the acquiring legal entity, employees, and agents as well as any provider called upon to use the Font Software are informed of the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, and agree to be bound by it before using the Font Software.

In case of use of the Font Software unauthorized by this License Agreement, both by himself or by members of the household or members of the acquiring legal entity, employees and agents, as well as any provider or customer, the User acknowledges that he is fully liable towards Production Systems SAS, and undertakes to compensate it in this respect.

### 8.2 Production Systems SAS capacity

Production Systems SAS guarantees that it has the legal capacity to grant this License Agreement, and that it holds all the intellectual property rights to grant the authorizations set out in Article 3 of this agreement to the User.

Production Systems SAS retains exclusive title to the intellectual property rights attached to the Font software and all its components in all their versions.

Production Systems SAS shall hold the User harmless against any claim or suit that might be brought by any physical persons or legal entities that claim any rights whatsoever to all or part of the Font Software, and/or its components and/or their use by the User, as long as:

- The User has notified, within a reasonable period of time, the action or suit or declaration that preceded the dispute;

- Production Systems SAS has been able to freely conduct, at its own cost, the defence of its own interests as well as those of the User, and particularly that it has given its agreement to the choice of the attorney(/s) entrusted with the defense and that, within the procedure, the User has loyally collaborated in said defense by providing, in due time, all the elements of information and assistance reasonably necessary to successfully conduct said defense.

### 8.3 Duration

Production Systems SAS contractually guarantees the correct operation of the Font Software and its components, over the 30 (thirty) days following their delivery, no guarantee concerning the correct operation of the Font Software and its components, nor their fitness for the requirements and usage envisaged by the User being supplied to the User being provided to the User beyond this 30 (thirty) day deadline, without prejudice toward any laws and regulations that may be applicable.

To make a warranty claim, the User must contact Production Systems SAS at the email address indicated in Article 14.6 of this agreement, with sufficient information to enable confirmation of the date of effectiveness of this License Agreement, which the User acknowledges and accepts.

### 8.4 Obligation of means

Bearing in mind the highly technical nature of the Font Software, and the current status of IT techniques, the Parties mutually agree that Production Systems SAS is subject to an obligation of means, specifically not guaranteeing that the Font Software is fit for the User's intended use.

The liability of Production Systems SAS may only be incurred by its actions and/or those of its employees in the case of acts carried out by it or them, within the framework of the execution of the License Agreement, and in the sole case where a causal link has been established between the alleged detriment and gross misconduct of Production Systems SAS and/or its employees, without prejudice to any applicable laws and regulations.

The User hereby accepts that the compensation for any loss suffered by the User arising from the use of the Font Software and/or concerning the execution of this License Agreement is limited to the amount of remuneration paid by the User to Production Systems SAS under Article 7 of this agreement, without prejudice to any applicable laws and regulations.

### 8.5 Liability

Production Systems SAS disavows any liability in any respect whatsoever for indirect damages such as loss of earnings, commercial or financial detriment, the increase of general costs, resulting from third-party claims or losses originating in or being the consequence of this License Agreement, even when Production Systems SAS has previously been informed, as well as damages caused to persons or property distinct from the contractual purpose, without prejudice toward any applicable laws and regulations.

The User alone shall bear the consequences of operating faults of the Font Software due to any use non-compliant with the operating instructions, and acknowledges that Production Systems SAS does not guarantee the Font Software is fit for the use sought by the User.

The User agrees that it bears the burden of complying with all laws, foreign and domestic, on the control of exports or transfers of technology.

If the User acquires the Font for governmental usage, the User agrees to read and comply with all applicable rules relating to the purchase of a license to use the software, and the effective use of same.

## ARTICLE 9 – CANCELLATION

### 9.1 Cancellation for breach of the User

In case of breach by the User of any of its obligations under the License Agreement, the latter may be canceled ex officio, without any legal formality, 30 (thirty) days after formal notice has gone unanswered. The cancellation must be notified by Production Systems SAS to the User by registered mail with notification of receipt.

The User is required to immediately withdraw documents printed on tangible formats published with the help of the Font Software, and including the Typeface, already made available to the public or distributed. The User may not use up existing stocks of such documents published but not yet distributed before the cancellation date. No re-publication nor reprint using the Font Software and/or Typeface is authorized after the cancellation date. The User shall also have the obligation to withdraw Font files from any intangible or digital formats (applications, servers, etc.) immediately.

### 9.2 Cancellation for convenience

The Parties may end the License Agreement at any time, respecting a notice period of 3 (three) months following the sending of a registered letter with notification of receipt.

In this case, the User is not required to proceed with withdrawal when documents printed on tangible formats published with the help of the Font Software and including Typographical Characters have already been made available to the public and/or distributed. The User is also authorized to use up existing stocks of such documents, published but not yet distributed, before the cancellation date. It is, on the other hand, understood between the Parties that no re-publication using the Font Software and/or Typeface is authorized after the cancellation date.

### 9.3 Consequences common to all types of cancellations

In the event of cancellation, it is agreed between the Parties that the User must immediately cease use of the Font Software to publish all documents and/or its use and/ or integration into any file and/or any software enabling the display of Typeface on all types of formats and/or terminal. 

In all cases, the User undertakes to delete the Font Software and, if he has made one, the back-up copy of the Font Software, from the Server, Computer and, more generally, any storage space in which the Font Software and/or the back-up copy of the Font Software is stored.

The User acknowledges that the conservation of the Font Software and/or the back-up copy of the Font Software after the cancellation of the License Agreement constitutes a breach for which the User may be subject to legal action.

The User undertakes to recall all multimedia files and/or products integrating the Typographical Characters and/or the Font Software, and making it possible to generate Typeface and, more generally, all copies of files and/or products integrating the Font Software within no more than thirty (30) days of the cancellation date of the License Agreement.

In case of cancellation of this agreement, the stipulations of Articles 1, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 13 remain applicable.

### ARTICLE 10 – ASSIGNMENT

10.1 The License Agreement is personal, and the User may not assign it or transfer it to a third party, without prejudice to the cases expressly set out in Article 3 herein, where the use of the Font Software by a third party is authorized, subject to respect for the conditions and purpose of this use.

It should be recalled, for all useful purposes, that if the User is a service provider and concludes a license for his own usage, this does not cover the use of the Font Software by any of the customers of the User, except in the cases expressly set out herein. As applicable, and if he so wishes, the User’s customer must acquire a license from Production Systems SAS.

10.2 In the event that the Font Software is validly assigned by the User to a third party pursuant to law, in all cases said assignment shall only be valid and enforceable against Production Systems SAS as long as the User informs Production System SAS of the identity and full details of the assignee of the Font Software, and the User provides evidence to Productions Systems SAS of the destruction of all copies of the Font Software held by the initial user.

10.3 Production Systems SAS may assign at any time the obligations springing from this License Agreement to the natural person or legal entity of its choice.

### ARTICLE 11 – NON-DISCLOSURE

The User is prohibited from revealing to any third party any information he may have accessed relating to the know-how and/or technologies employed by Production Systems SAS for the design and/or use of the Font Software.

This obligation survives the termination of this Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, for a period of 10 (ten) years, without prejudice toward the application of the intellectual property rights of Production Systems SAS to the Font Software.

### ARTICLE 12 – APPLICABLE LAW AND COMPETENT JURISDICTION

12.1 The Parties agree that the License Agreement is prepared, subject to and interpreted according to French law. The User expressly agrees that the United Nations Convention on Agreements for International Sales of Goods is hereby excluded.

12.2 Before any referral to the courts, the User undertakes to inform Production Systems SAS of any dispute, by letter sent by regular mail to Production Systems SAS, 255 rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine 75011 Paris, France, and to seek an amicable solution. In the event of failure to reach an amicable solution, the Parties agree that any dispute relating, in particular, to the validity, interpretation, and execution of the License Agreement shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent Paris courts, subject to mandatory laws and regulations.

### ARTICLE 13 – VARIOUS PROVISIONS

13.1 The License Agreement, its annexes, its amendments and the Purchase Orders indicating the total price of each order, as well as the detail of the Font Software programs selected, the license(s) selected and their duration, and the price of each license, constitute the entirety of the commitments made between the Parties, and annul and replace prior verbal and/or written commitments between the Parties on the same subject.

13.2 The License Agreement may only be modified by a written amendment validly accepted by the Parties.

13.3 Production Systems SAS reserves the right to amend or modify the License Agreement at any moment without notice, for future technical developments. The user may be informed by any means of the new stipulations of the License Agreement.

In case of modification of this License Agreement, the User shall be asked to accept the new License Agreement according to the same conditions as this agreement. When accepting the said modification, the User shall be asked to accept the new License Agreement by mandatorily "ticking" the box attesting to acceptance of the new License Agreement "I have read and fully accept all of the rules set out in this License". The modified License Agreement shall only be applicable to the User after they have expressly accepted it.

13.4 The fact of not requiring or forcing the execution by the User of certain stipulations herein, or the fact of not prevailing upon a right set out herein, cannot be interpreted as a waiver, by Production Systems SAS, of its right to require or impose the execution of these stipulations.

The express waiver by production Systems SAS of stipulations, conditions or requirements in this License Agreement may not constitute a waiver of any future obligation of compliance with said stipulations, conditions or requirements.

13.5 If one or several stipulations of the License Agreement are held to be invalid or declared as such pursuant to law, regulations or following a definitive ruling by a competent court, the other stipulations shall retain all their force and scope.

The Parties thus agree to replace the clause declared null and void with one that is as equivalent as possible to its content, and the economic intent of the clause initially agreed.

13.6 All requests for information must be sent by e-mail to: <info@productiontype.com>

Each Party agrees to inform the other Party of any substantial modification concerning its situation (particularly the address, bank details, assignments, etc.)

13.7 The website of Production Systems SAS is: <http://www.productiontype.com/>.

13.8 The User expressly acknowledges he has read and understood this License Agreement, and that in using the Font Software, he agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

13.9 This Agreement is written in French and translated into English. Only the French version has legal force, particularly in the event of a dispute.

*End-User License Agreement – Production Systems SAS*

v6.0.3 - 20200425 — Formatting.

v6.0.2 - 20181216 — Formatting. Removal of 1-year term limit. Added Titles. 

v6.0.1 - 20180720 — Correction of typos, capitalization, use of “Oxford comma”.

v6.0.0 - 20161004
>>>>>>> 3fe25247499c5d94b4e7a54c2c8bab3f588954e3
